well howdy there internet people its Bo
again so today we are going to talk
about the Black Hills we're going to
talk about the cultural significance the
historical significance we're going to
talk a little bit about the Constitution
and how it relates to the Black Hills
we're going to do this because Trump is
going to Rushmore and this has caused a
stir just like going to Tulsa whoever is
picking his locations for his
appearances is either really bad at the
timing or is doing it intentionally one
of the two I don't know which we're
gonna start by talking about the
Constitution because those people who
have an attachment to Mount Rushmore I
would imagine that they view themselves
as Patriots as people who love America
and love the ideas that America is
supposed to represent so we're gonna
start with the Constitution because that
should be one of the most important
things not a symbol but the most
important thing article 6 clause to this
Constitution and the laws of the United
States which shall be made in pursuance
thereof and all treaties made or which
shall be made under the authority of the
United States shall be the supreme law
of the land treaties are the supreme law
of the land in 1868 the Fort Laramie
Treaty gave this region to the Sioux now
I'm going to use the term Sioux in this
just to for sake of continuity okay for
those that don't know there are other
terms that are way more appropriate but
right now we're just going to stick with
that okay so what's given to them why
don't they have it if it's their land
and the treaty said they should have it
undisturbed and it's the supreme law of
the land why don't they have it because
there's golden than their Hills shortly
shortly after it was given to them the
u.s. took it back because of gold
that's why this was unconstitutional
this was plainly unconstitutional it is
their land period if we honor the
treaties and honor the Constitution it's
their land now I know somebody else out
there is going up here we go another
YouTube constitutional scholar the
Supreme Court said the taking the land
back was unconstitutional they said this
in 1980 but rather than ordering the
land returned because it is still a tool
of the settlers they they offer to cash
payment and the Sioux didn't take it why
why wouldn't they take the money because
it's Eden it is even that's the only way
I can think to explain it to non natives
its Eden it's the birthplace of their
culture to them it is the birthplace of
humanity when we say it was given to
them in 1868 that is historically
inaccurate they had been there for
centuries indigenous culture after
indigenous culture and each one that
came adopted the traditions in the
outlook of those that came before in
relation to the Black Hills it has been
sacred land for centuries and it's
theirs it's their land historically
traditionally morally ethically and
constitutionally it's their land now
over the years a whole bunch of people
have come up with solutions to this
problem come up with ideas on what to do
with their land doesn't matter
my opinion on what should happen doesn't
matter
I'm not Oglala I'm not sue it's their
land they get to decide and some of
these solutions well we'll give
everything back except for rush we'll
get a rushmore back but they have to
keep it up but they'll get to keep the
revenue will remove a giant chunk of
their land and put it somewhere else
it's their land they get to decide what
to do with it here's a crazy idea
let's give it back
let's give it back and hope that they
are better people hope that they won't
deface something that has become
important to American mythology and
that's what it is it's mythology because
the people who are standing here talking
about how important it is to honor this
symbol this symbol that's what it is
it's a symbol in order to honor that
symbol they're going to undermine the
main thing the symbols supposed to
represent constitutionally it's theirs
we need to honor the treaties we need to
honor the Constitution we need to give
the land back let the chips fall where
they may they may decide to remove it
okay and are we willing to sell out the
Constitution to protect some statues to
protect a carving in the side of a
mountain that never should have been
there or maybe they leave it up we don't
know and we don't have a say in it it's
not ours
let's say they do take it down so what
but what happens this the United States
cease to be does it no longer mean
anything because the funny thing is that
by keeping it up you're undermining the
United States you're undermining the
Constitution it's theirs
give it back I'd I don't know why this
is a debate anyway it's just a fault
y'all have a good night